1. Dependencies and troubleshooting in Docker Compose
00:00 - 00:08
Welcome back! We're getting near the end of our course so let's cover one last new topic in Docker Compose - dependencies.

2. What are dependencies?
00:08 - 00:38
So, what are dependencies? Dependencies in Docker Compose define the order of resource startup. Resources, meaning containers, may require other resources to be in place first. Consider an example: a simple web application consisting of three resources. Our first resource is a database container running postgresql, which must start prior to the others. Otherwise, the application will throw errors until the database is available.

3. What are dependencies?
00:38 - 00:44
Next is the Python application that controls communications between the web and the database.

4. What are dependencies?
00:44 - 00:50
Finally, the nginx resource starts up the web server and actually serves the web content.

5. depends_on
00:50 - 01:31
Basic dependencies are defined using the depends-underscore-on attribute, followed by a list of the resources it depends on. Dependencies can be chained, as in our example. First, we define the postgresql resource, which has no dependencies. The python-app then has a depends_on attribute listing PostgreSQL, followed by the nginx resource, which depends on the python-app. In addition to a dependency chain, you can list multiple dependencies per resource if required. It's important to note that once dependencies are defined, the order of resources within the compose-dot-yaml file does not matter.

6. Shutting down applications
01:31 - 01:41
Important, when shutting down applications, the resources shut down in reverse order. In our example, the nginx resource would be stopped first.

7. Shutting down applications
01:41 - 01:45
Then the python_app resource is removed.

8. Shutting down applications
01:45 - 01:50
And finally the postgresql resource is shut down as no running containers require it.

9. Other options
01:50 - 03:04
Docker Compose provides other options for defining dependencies. The condition attribute tells Docker Compose when a dependency is successfully started and is ready. The first condition is called service-underscore-started, meaning the resource must have started normally. This is the same as the default behavior when using depends-on without a condition attribute. The next condition is called service-underscore-completed-underscore-successfully. This indicates that a resource ran to completion before moving to the next resource. This isn't used often but could be as a setup resource, a configuration validation, or anything where you need steps to occur before starting an application. The last and most powerful condition is called service-underscore-healthy. This means the resource is started and is not considered ready until it passes a healthcheck. The healthcheck is a defined method, such as accessing a specific webpage or verifying a TCP port answers a connection request. Healthchecks can be defined in Dockerfiles or in a Docker Compose file as needed. We won't cover creating our own healthchecks in this course, but we can still use existing ones in our dependencies.

10. Docker Compose troubleshooting tools
03:04 - 03:43
Before we complete this video, let's look at some extra troubleshooting tools available within Docker Compose. The command docker-compose-logs will gather the output from all resources within an application. Here's an example application using redis and a web application. Notice that the name of the resource is prepended to each line of output. This would be the same as running docker-logs-containerid for each resource in the application. You can also run docker-compose-logs-resourcename, such as docker-compose-logs-web, to get just the output from the web resource.

11. docker compose top
03:43 - 04:00
Another useful tool for troubleshooting Docker Compose is docker-compose-top. This shows the status of resources within an application. This example shows the same redis and web resources with the name of the application, composetest.

12. Let's practice!
04:00 - 04:06
Let's practice what you've learned about dependencies and troubleshooting in the exercises ahead.