1. Unsupervised Learning
00:00 - 00:09
Hi! My name is Ben Wilson and I'm a Data Scientist and mathematician. We're here to learn about unsupervised learning in Python.

2. Unsupervised learning
00:09 - 00:33
Unsupervised learning is a class of machine learning techniques for discovering patterns in data. For instance, finding the natural "clusters" of customers based on their purchase histories, or searching for patterns and correlations among these purchases, and using these patterns to express the data in a compressed form. These are examples of unsupervised learning techniques called "clustering" and "dimension reduction".

3. Supervised vs unsupervised learning
00:33 - 01:13
Unsupervised learning is defined in opposition to supervised learning. An example of supervised learning is using the measurements of tumors to classify them as benign or cancerous. In this case, the pattern discovery is guided, or "supervised", so that the patterns are as useful as possible for predicting the label: benign or cancerous. Unsupervised learning, in contrast, is learning without labels. It is pure pattern discovery, unguided by a prediction task. You'll start by learning about clustering. But before we begin, let's introduce a dataset and fix some terminology.

4. Iris dataset
01:13 - 01:30
The iris dataset consists of the measurements of many iris plants of three different species. There are four measurements: petal length, petal width, sepal length and sepal width. These are the features of the dataset.

1 https://scikit-learn.org/stable/modules/generated/sklearn.datasets.load_iris.html
5. Arrays, features & samples
01:30 - 01:50
Throughout this course, datasets like this will be written as two-dimensional numpy arrays. The columns of the array will correspond to the features. The measurements for individual plants are the samples of the dataset. These correspond to rows of the array.

6. Iris data is 4-dimensional
01:50 - 02:07
The samples of the iris dataset have four measurements, and so correspond to points in a four-dimensional space. This is the dimension of the dataset. We can't visualize four dimensions directly, but using unsupervised learning techniques we can still gain insight.

7. k-means clustering
02:07 - 02:27
In this chapter, we'll cluster these samples using k-means clustering. k-means finds a specified number of clusters in the samples. It's implemented in the scikit-learn or "sklearn" library. Let's see kmeans in action on some samples from the iris dataset.

8. k-means clustering with scikit-learn
02:27 - 03:13
The iris samples are represented as an array. To start, import kmeans from scikit-learn. Then create a kmeans model, specifying the number of clusters you want to find. Let's specify 3 clusters, since there are three species of iris. Now call the fit method of the model, passing the array of samples. This fits the model to the data, by locating and remembering the regions where the different clusters occur. Then we can use the predict method of the model on these same samples. This returns a cluster label for each sample, indicating to which cluster a sample belongs. Let's assign the result to labels, and print it out.

9. Cluster labels for new samples
03:13 - 03:35
If someone comes along with some new iris samples, k-means can determine to which clusters they belong without starting over. k-means does this by remembering the mean (or average) of the samples in each cluster. These are called the "centroids". New samples are assigned to the cluster whose centroid is closest.

10. Cluster labels for new samples
03:35 - 03:50
Suppose you've got an array of new samples. To assign the new samples to the existing clusters, pass the array of new samples to the predict method of the kmeans model. This returns the cluster labels of the new samples.

11. Scatter plots
03:50 - 04:17
In the next video, you'll learn how to evaluate the quality of your clustering. But for now, let's visualize our clustering of the iris samples using scatter plots. Here is a scatter plot of the sepal length vs petal length of the iris samples. Each point represents an iris sample, and is colored according to the cluster of the sample. To create a scatter plot like this, use PyPlot.

12. Scatter plots
04:17 - 04:49
Firstly, import PyPlot. It is conventionally imported as plt. Now get the x- and y- co-ordinates of each sample. Sepal length is in the 0th column of the array, while petal length is in the 2nd column. Now call the plt dot scatter function, passing the x- and y- co-ordinates and specifying c=labels to color by cluster label. When you are ready to show your plot, call plt dot show.

13. Let's practice!
04:49 - 04:58
It's time to take your first steps in unsupervised learning. Have fun!