1. Transforming non-tabular data
00:00 - 00:07
Before we begin transforming non-tabular data, let's take a look back at our architecture diagram for this chapter.

2. Transforming non-tabular data
00:07 - 00:27
In the last lesson, we have practiced using the json-dot-load function to read data into memory that was too complex to be automatically loaded into a DataFrame with the read_json function. Now, we'll explore tools and techniques to transform this complex data, so it can be stored as a DataFrame.

3. Storing data in dictionaries
00:27 - 00:54
On the left is data too complex to be stored as a DataFrame with the read_json function. In this dictionary, each key represents a unique index, and the associated value is a nested dictionary which stores the remainder of the record. To allow for further transformation, this dictionary needs to be transformed to a data structure that can easily be converted to a DataFrame, such as a list of lists.

4. Iterating over dictionary components
00:54 - 01:31
To transform data stored in a dictionary, we'll first want to loop through its keys and values. This can be done by converting the keys and values to lists, using the dot-keys, dot-values, and dot-items methods. The dot-keys and dot-values methods create a list of keys or values, respectively. These can then be looped over, and leveraged as needed. The dot-items method returns a list of tuples, where each tuple is a key-value pair. The dot-items method is useful when working with both a dictionary's keys and values.

5. Parsing data from dictionaries
01:31 - 02:31
In addition to iterating over a dictionary, we'll also want to extract individual values from a dictionary. We can do this using the dot-get method. This method takes a key, and if the key exists in the dictionary, the associated value will be returned. Otherwise, the return value will be None. To parse the "volume" value from the dictionary shown above, "volume" is passed to the dot-get method, and the results are stored in the volume variable. If a second value is passed to the dot-get method, this value will be returned if the key does not exist in the dictionary. This is best practice when working with JSON data parsed from a file that does not follow a set format. When working with nested data, the dot-get method can be called twice. To extract the "open" value, dot-get is used first to parse the dictionary stored at key "price", before being used to return the value stored with key "open".

6. Creating a DataFrame from a list of lists
02:31 - 03:00
Once data has been converted from a dictionary into a list of lists, it can be passed to the pd-dot-DataFrame function to create a new DataFrame. Column names for the DataFrame can be set by passing a list of columns names to the dot-columns attribute. In addition to this, the dot-set_index method can be invoked by passing a column name, or list of column names, to use as an index. Let's take a look at an example!

7. Transforming stock data
03:00 - 03:31
In this example, the keys and values of the raw_stock_data dictionary are iterated over using the dot-items method. The keys are timestamps, and the values are a dictionary containing the remaining data. The open, close, and volume values are then parsed from the dictionary, and appended as a list to the parsed_stock_data list. This list is then converted to a DataFrame using pandas, and the columns and index are set.

8. Let's practice!
03:31 - 03:41
Being able to transform non-tabular data into a DataFrame will come in handy when building data pipelines. Now, time for some practice!

